---
title: 'The Nature of NLP: Analyzing Contributions in NLP Papers'
date: 2025-01-07
permalink: /posts/2012/08/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---
[Download the Paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2409.19505)
<p> KEY INSIGHT </p>
<p style="text-align: justify;">
The study uses pre-trained language models, including general-purpose models like BERT and RoBERTa, fine-tuned using the NLPContributions dataset. Large Language Models like GPT-3.5-Turbo and GPT-4-Turbo are used, fine-tuned with Reinforcement Learning from Human Feedback. A binary relevance method is used for classification, avoiding overfitting. A random baseline is used for comparison. Domain-specific models like BiomedBERT and SciBERT are used to analyze contributions in NLP research, with the SciBERT model specifically applied to research paper abstracts.
</P>

<p style="text-align: justify;">
The study reveals that 68% of NLP papers are artifacts and 69% are knowledge. EMNLP has a higher number of artifact-method contributions, emphasizing empirical methods. The Computational Linguistics journal contributes more to knowledge about language and people, while focusing less on machine learning. The study also finds that both journals and conferences have similar average numbers of unique contribution types in their abstracts, but the average length of abstracts has not changed significantly.
</P>

<p style="text-align: justify;">
The study focuses on NLP research papers from the ACL Anthology, excluding AI conferences and regional events. It uses a trained classifier to analyze a larger dataset, but no model achieves perfect accuracy. The authors argue that broader trends derived from large datasets correlate well with gold-label analysis. They suggest a common publication norm across conferences may limit the diversity of contributions and exploration of different types of works.
</P>

<p style="text-align: justify;">
The authors suggest future research to include research papers from alternative venues like AI venues, regional conferences, and preprint servers to provide a comprehensive analysis of NLP contributions. They also suggest extending the annotation process to the main body of papers for a more thorough examination. The study uses a trained classifier to analyze a larger dataset, but could improve its accuracy and reliability. The authors also highlight the increasing involvement of machine learning and language and people in NLP, and the potential loss of unique characteristics among different publication venues.
</P>



